# Storm Surge Model Input Files and Codes

This repository provides the input files for the storm surge model used in the paper, as well as the codes for producing these input files.


## Codes

The ./MATLAB_code folder contains the MATLAB scripts used tp produce input files for the storm surge model.

### Prerequisite

MATLAB: 
All codes were written for MATLAB R2021a 64-bit. System requirements for this software can be found in https://www.mathworks.com/content/dam/mathworks/mathworks-dot-com/support/sysreq/files/system-requirements-release-2021a-windows.pdf.

Data:
These codes require synthetic track datasets generated by WindRiskTech, LLC.
Note: We cannot share these datasets. To request them, please contact info@windrisktech.com.

### Producing Input Files

1. Spiderweb.m
- produces a spiderweb grid file (*.spw), i.e., pressure and wind velocity field files, from the synthetic track data.
2. Model_setup.m
- produces an external forcing file (*.ext) and main input file (*.mdu) in ./input/dflowfm (hydrodynamic model).
- produces an input file (*.mdw) in ./input/wave (wave model).
- produces a configuration file (dimr_config.xml) in ./input.
- copies the spiderweb grid file (*.spw) to the ./input/dflowfm and ./input/wave folders.


## Input Files

The ./input folder contains the input files for both the hydrodymic and wave models, along with the configuration file.

### Prerequisite

The models were simulated in Delft3D FM Suite 2021.03 2D3D. This software requires a license. For access, please contact software@deltares-usa.us.

### Hydrodynamic model input files (./input/dflowfm)

1. Boundary01.pli - a boundary condition location file (in polyline file format)
2. FlowFM.ext - an external forcing file (e.g., friction, winds)
3. FlowFM.mdu - a main input file
4. FlowFM_bnd.ext - an external forcing file at boundaries
5. FlowFM_fxw.pliz - a fixed weir file (in polyline file format with z values, representing the coastal spine)
6. FlowFM_net.nc - an unstructured grid (network) file 
* Note: The file here is similar, but not exact the same as in the simulations. Due to size limitation, the grid file used is not included in the repository.
To request the grid file, please contact seokmins@umich.edu.
7. FlowFM_observations_obs.xyn - an observation station file
8. frictioncoefficient.xyz - a spatial field file for Manning's n coefficients
9. Riemann.bc - a boundary data file with polyline and point labels (in BC format, Riemann boundary conditions)

### Wave model input files (./input/wave)

1. Bathymetry_entire.dep - a bathymetry file over the entire domain grid 
2. Bathymetry_nesting.dep - a bathymetry file over the nested subdomain grid (level 1)
3. Bathymetry_nesting01.dep - a bathymetry file over the nested subdomain grid (level 2.1)
4. Bathymetry_nesting02.dep - a bathymetry file over the nested subdomain grid (level 2.2)
5. Bathymetry_nesting03.dep - a bathymetry file over the nested subdomain grid (level 2.3)
6. Bathymetry_nesting04.dep - a bathymetry file over the nested subdomain grid (level 2.4)
7. Grid_entire_net.grd - a curvilinear grid file over the entire domain
8. Grid_nesting_net.grd - a curvilinear grid file over the nested subdomain (level 1)
9. Grid_nesting01.grd - a curvilinear grid file over the nested subdomain (level 2.1)
10. Grid_nesting02.grd - a curvilinear grid file over the nested subdomain (level 2.2)
11. Grid_nesting03.grd - a curvilinear grid file over the nested subdomain (level 2.3)
12. Grid_nesting04.grd - a curvilinear grid file over the nested subdomain (level 2.4)
13. Wave.mdw - a main input file 

### DIMR Congifuration file (dimr_config.xml)
- an input configuration file for the module Deltares Integrated Model Runner (DIMR)


## Contact

For any questions regarding the codes or files, please contact Seokmin Son (seokmins@umich.edu).

Please see the paper for more information on the codes and data.




